Have somebody was being mischievous,
they could figure out what
our serverless function was.
And then they could just
skip this UI altogether, and
they could just post to that serverless
function, which we don't want.
We wanna control access all the way,
and so
what we're gonna do is we're gonna
modify our admin a little bit.
And in addition to controlling
access to the page,
we're also gonna include the access token,
in what we send to our
serverless function.
So let's grab out the access token,
from window.netlifyIdentity.currentUser,
and then that's gonna give us a token.
So I'm grabbing out the currentUser's
token, and we're gonna use the access
token part, which is the JSON web token,
the jot that we just looked at.
Then I'm gonna add in our our fetch call,
I'm gonna add some headers.
And what I wanna send is
an authorization header,
and that is going to be a Bearer token.
Which I'm not 100% sure if
there are other types and
that's why you include Bearer in
the front, but this is a really common
thing that you'll see that the token
gets prefixed with Bearer.
So that's how we're gonna do that.
So now we have prefixed our
access token with Bearer,
we're passing it in
the authorization header.
And what that means is now our
serverless function is gonna
get that authorization token.
That's super cool, so
if we go back to our add movie,
I'm going to comment this part out for
a minute,
because I wanna play with the tokens
before we start saving things.
So instead, let's just comment all of this
out actually, so doesn't give us errors.
And what we're gonna do with this,
is we're gonna look at the event headers.
So let's just console log(event) again,
and
we're gonna return the status 200 and
work in progress.
So now that we've got this running,
I'm just gonna submit something.
And I think I can just submit empty,
so let's see if it'll let me do that.
Yeah, so that does what I want.
We should see in here
if I scroll down yeah,
that we've got this authorization header
that came in, and we can see our token.
So if we take this token, and we bring it
over to jot.IO, should be the same token.
It is, well kind of, it's it's
a newer version of the same token,
that has the email app metadata,
user metadata, excellent.
So that's exactly what we want, so
there are a lot of ways that
you can parse a JSON web token.
We are gonna take the easy way out,
because nullify functions,
nullify identity are part
of the same system.
We actually just handle that for
you, so we pass in context, and
so if we look at this context object and
run the same thing.
Let me just submit this function.
And then let's come back here and look.
We can see that we get a whole bunch
of stuff, we get some objects and
things like that.
But then we get this clientContext and
inside clientContext,
we get some information
about the Identity service.
That is pretty cool if you wannna do
some dynamic stuff, like if you wanted
to change the role of someone using
serverless functions, you can do that.
And we'll look at some examples of that a
little bit later on, that are pretty fun.
But then we also get this user.
And so
this user includes all that information,
we get the app metadata,
the user metadata, the user ID.
And that way we don't have
to parse the JSON web token,
we can just use this object.
So we're gonna do that, and
the way that we're gonna to do
that is in our function body.
Let's just revert all this
stuff that we did here.
All right, so
I'm gonna get this out of there,
and then let's re enable all of our logic.
Okay, so we're back to where we started.
We we have a handler, and
we're getting out the form data, and
we're submitting that to hasura.
So before we do all that,
I wanna grab out the user, and
we're gonna get that out of clientContest,
cuz that's where we found it before,
right?
That's where it was in this object.
We've got clientContext,
and then we have a user.
So I want this user object,
and then what I'm gonna do,
is I wanna check if we
have a logged in user.
So we'll create a variable
called isLoggedIn, and
that's gonna check if we have a user.
And we have a user.app_metadata, right?
And then I'm going to check
we'll check if the roles will be
user.app_metadata.roles or an array.
Then in here we're gonna
check if we're not logged in,
or our roles don't include admin,
then I wanna return a different thing.
I want to return a statusCode, a 401, and
I wanna return a body of unauthorized.
So, does it make sense,
what we just did here?
Does anybody have questions?
Just to walk through it from the top,
what's happening,
is we are passing in that user identity.
So our admin function now
includes an identity token.
It's showing someone, or showing our app
who the person is making this request.
Inside of our serverless function,
we are grabbing that data that was
sent in with the serverless function
to figure out who our user is.
So first we're making sure
that they are in fact a user.
So if an invalid token or
no token gets provided,
then this would come back as false.
Then we're checking whether or
not they have roles.
So if they have roles,
then we are going to use those otherwise,
we have an empty array.
And then, we just check,
are they logged in?
And do they have the admin role?
If not, we're gonna say that they're
not authorized to do this thing.
If so, we'll let them do it, so now, that
I've done this, we make sure it's saved.
Let's take a crack at this,
I'm gonna to try to add our last movie.
So let's go to movies dot.json over here.
And I'm gonna copy this out,
here's our last one.
Let's drop it in, copy the title,
get this tagline, And our poster.
Nope, got a 401.
So we're not allowed to make this change,
and
if I go look at our data here,
we can see that it didn't get added.
So, now our function is gated, our
function does not allow someone to make
this call,
unless they have the appropriate role.
So let's go give this user that role, I'm
gonna edit, let's let's go back out here.
I'm in the frontend
masters-serverless function, and
you can get there by running ntl open.
This will take you right to your console.
Once I get there, I'm clicking on
Identity and I'm looking at my user.
I'm gonna click on this user,
and then I'm gonna hit Edit.
And then here, I'm gonna add a role
of admin, and click that button.
So now I have an admin user,
so let me save that.
Okay, so now that I've done that,
when I come back out here,
and I log out,
let me start the server again.
Okay, so I'm logged out,
now let me log back in.
We are logged in.
And then I'm going to,
in the console here.
Let's
console.lognullifyIdentitycurrentuser, and
let's grab that token.
And let's go and look at a jot.io again.
Look at that, now we have a role in our
app metadata, we've set a role of admin.
And that means that we've officially
authorized one user to make
decisions about what's in our database,
this user is allowed to post to our app.
So if I go back in to the app itself,
and let's add that one more time.
Let's try to add this this movie,
so I'm gonna add it.
Give our title.
Here's our tagline.
And here is our poster.
We get a 200, and if I go back out to
the front There it is, In The Boop.